In his article "Lessons from Dunning-Kruger", published on November the 6th 2014, Steven Novella explains and gives some examples about the eponym effect.
The best way to summarize this psychological concept is from Dunning himself: "incompetent people do not recognize—scratch that, cannot recognize—just how incompetent they are”.

In more details, the Dunning-Kruger effect is laying in the fact that when one's performance decreases, its self-assessment does not decrease as well.

The most common and intuitive example to illustrate this effect is to think about rather dumb people who are actually convinced that they are clever and do not acknowledge their condition.
Although, even if this example is good enough to explain the basis of the effect, it somehow can lead people in thinking that only dumb people are concerned.

However, the Dunning-Kruger applies to everyone, 

simple ego – no one wants to think of themselves as below average, so they inflate their self-assessment

ignorance carries with it the inability to accurately assess one’s own ignorance


systematically seek out information that confirms those ideas. We dismiss contrary information as exceptions

We remember and then our memories tweak any experience that seems to confirm what we believe.



when confronted with someone saying we are wrong, or promoting an alternate view, some people become hostile


The Dunning-Kruger effect does not just apply to other people – it applies to everyone

We have to both recognize them and make a conscious effort to work against them
Part of the way to do this is to systematically doubt ourselves.

Think about some area in which you have a great deal of knowledge, in the expert to mastery level (or maybe just a special interest with above average knowledge). Now, think about how much the average person knows about your area of specialty. Not only do they know comparatively very little, they likely have no idea how little they know, and how much specialized knowledge even exists.

Here comes the critical part – now realize that you are as ignorant as the average person is every other area of knowledge in which you are not expert.




















